[RI2 Ch1] - initial content (#1651)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_impl/cntt-ri2/chapters/chapter01.md

The document first consolidates the requirements that need to be addressed by this RI in [Chapter 2](./chapter02.md). [Chapter 3](./chapter03.md) then details the requirements that need to be met in order for anyone to be able to install the RI, whether that be into a community lab, their own corporate or personal lab or some other environment such as CNF Testbed or a public cloud provider. An operational runbook is documented in [Chapter 4](./chapter04.md) to aid the deployment of the RI into a chosen environment and includes step-by-step instructions for a selection of installers as well as steps on how to validate the deployment. Finally, [Chapter 5](./chapter05.md) is a placeholder to allow the documentation of any gaps found during the development of this document and the associated artefacts.

<a name="1.1.3"></a>
### 1.1.3 Terminology

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../tech/glossary.md).

<a name="1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

The scope of this document is as follows:
1. To generate eco-system requirements for the establishment of the RI, including labs, tooling, installers, releases and automation requirements

> 1. Provide detailed description file definition for installers, VNF features, and etc..

Reviewer: can this be changed to CNF?

Author: Done in https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/1651/commits/b4545b35f0a35b8c6e71dee39c087e6c58fe5db6

> 1. Provide detailed description file definition for installers, CNF features, and etc..

Reviewer 2: This sentence feels broken.

> 1. Provide detailed description file definition for installers, CNF features, and etc..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Provide a detailed description file for use by installers.
```

> 1. Provide detailed lab criteria and operations but that are generic enough to allow any environment to be used as the "lab".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Provide detailed lab criteria and operations that are generic enough to allow any environment to be used as the "lab".
```

1. Provide an operational runbook for the RI, which includes detailed steps for the deployment and configuration of the RI into a chosen lab environment
1. Provide detailed design for automation of deployment and testing, provide continuous integration and delivery pipeline for the RI
1. Gap analysis with required actions for existing eco-system within adjacent community projects

<a name="1.3"></a>
## 1.3 Reference Implementation Approach

> The approach taken for the RI has deliberately started by having separate automation stages for the infrastructure on which the RI will be installed, and the RI itself. Meaning, initially, the RI is not looking to have a single installer that can both build out virtual or physical machines **and** build out the Kubernetes and other components.

Reviewer 3: The sentence seems to be recursive: it starts by stating that RI has having separate stages (I) for the infrastructure, and then (ii) on which RI will be installed

> The primary reason for this was to ensure the loose coupling between the two layers, to drive the concept that RI2 is a standalone platform that can (in theory at least) be deployable to any infrastructure, whether that be some physical machines in a lab, or virtual machines in a private or public cloud environment, for example. To combine the deployment of machines and Kubernetes platform with a single installer would potentially limit the locations on which the RI can be installed.

Reviewer 3: "the two layers" -- these have not been clearly identified

However, that's not to say full end-to-end installers aren't welcome, but if used we must be clear on the limitations and compromises made when we document them in [Chapter 4](./chapter04.md).

<a name="1.4"></a>
## 1.4 Relationship to other communities

The main communities involved in driving requirements and development of this RI are:
- **OPNFV - Cloud Native OVP aka OVP2.0**

>     - OPNFV, and CNOVP within it, owns the definition of the end-to-end framework (tooling, process, tests) used to verify and certify cloud native infrastructure and network functions

Reviewer 2: terminology nit-pick: better refer to "conformance testing" instead of "certify / certification"
```suggestion
    - OPNFV, and CNOVP within it, owns the definition of the end-to-end framework (tooling, process, tests) used to verify compliance of cloud native infrastructure and network functions
```

Author: This was taken from the CNOVP presentation that happened in the vF2F.  I think it's right to say that CNOVP owns certification, isn't it? Given they own the badging etc.

Reviewer 2: They absolutely own the badging and process around it. I was merely referring to the word "certification", which to my knowledge, we should not use as it is not a certification program in legal terms, but rather a compliance or conformance program.

Author: OK.  @xmulligan what's your opinion on this?  I took the wording from the deck you presented.  Happy to change, but want to be accurate.

Reviewer 2: FYI: just reading through the RC2 intro which seems to carefully avoid the term "certification" ;-) 

https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/1624/files?short_path=a5d88ac#diff-a5d88acaba38dfcb1dff1bc46ab88be3

Author: So I 100% agree that RC2 and anything CNTT-related should avoid certification, but this part of the doc is saying that OPNFV owns that certification, not anything CNTT-related.

Reviewer 2: ok, got it. Still, back in the days of OVP 1.0, the same advice was given by LF on the use of "certification".

It is a terminology nit-pick in the context of this chapter and I also don't want to be overly picky here - just pointing this out. Happy to hear opinions from others .

Reviewer 3: "certification" has legal implications and hence the use of the term "conformance" and "compliance"

>     - This verification and certification process is the end goal for the Rx2 stream of documents; the RC2 is defining tests that will be used by vendors and others to validate conformance to the RA2 specification, with RI2 being a deployable reference for vendors to develop against

Reviewer 2: terminology nit-pick: better refer to "conformance testing" instead of "certify / certification"
```suggestion
    - This verification process is the end goal for the Rx2 stream of documents; the RC2 is defining tests that will be used by vendors and others to validate conformance to the RA2 specification, with RI2 being a deployable reference for vendors to develop against
```

Author: As above - certification is valid as owned by CNOVP?

Reviewer 3: Should this be "verification and validation"

Verification is typically accomplished through reviews, waltk-throughs and inspections. Thus, verification could be utilised to examine the manifests and compare them against the configuration specifications.

Validation is performed using testing.

Reviewer 2: verification and validation works for me

- **CNCF - CNF Conformance, Kubernetes, etc.**

>     - The CNF Conformance project in CNCF has a stated aim to "visibility into how well Cloud native Network Functions (CNFs) and the underlying Telecom platform follows cloud native principles"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The CNF Conformance project in CNCF has a stated aim to provide "visibility into how well Cloud native Network Functions (CNFs) and the underlying Telecom platform follows cloud native principles".
```
